---
title: Jekyll
categories:
- First Impressions
feature_text: "In Awe of She"
feature_image: /assets/img/posts/first/jekyll/featured.jpg
---
For a time I was a web developer, I created many websites for clients where they showcased their product. The usual tool for this was WordPress, an easy to use tool that the average non-tech savvy client could use. When initially planning this blog it was the CMS that came to mind, well that or plain HTML. It was at this point that I came upon Jekyll CMS and I quickly found that it met all the requirements I needed in a modern CMS. So let's take a look at why you would and wouldn't want to use it as your CMS. 

## Pros
* Lightweight - Jekyll outputs plain old HTML, as in __actual files__ that you have to put online yourself. Because of this, it's quite snappy compared to WordPress. Granted you can use caching to speed up WordPress your plugins may impact its' effectiveness. But you can rest assured that Jekyll will have more consistency regardless of your set up. A side effect of this is that it's very easy to host a Jekyll site, you can even host it for free on GitHub pages.

* Security - Every year it seems like there are more and larger data breaches, even giants like Facebook and Google are affected. The breaches aren't limited to just websites though, even open source software is being targeted as was the recent case with [event-stream](https://blog.npmjs.org/post/180565383195/details-about-the-event-stream-incident). Jekyll doesn't implicitly make your website more secure, it does so by what it omits. Other CMS such as WordPress make use of accounts, databases, and live plugins to run your site. Jekyll, on the other hand, sticks to rending out plain HTML. This bypasses the vulnerability that comes with users having accounts, plugins becoming compromised, social engineering, and more. 

* Version Control - This might be my personal preference but I love version control. It allows me to save my work before making changes that potentially break things. It's also a lifesaver if your equipment breaks down thanks to an accident while drinking water at your desk. Therefore I love that Jekyll is completely compatible with version control, unlike other CMS.   Making a drastic change to that page? Trying to make a new layout? No problem, just commit before trying that and if things really don't work out just revert and start again!

## Cons

* No Control Panel - Because of its lightweight nature Jekyll does not come with any type of control panel. This means that in order to effectively use the platform you have to be somewhat familiar with coding and confident enough to run the commands that allow it to function. In my personal experience this a major red light for most people. But if you're making a website yourself then it shouldn't be an instant no from you. Personally, the biggest drawback is that thanks to the lack of control panel there is no easy way to schedule the release time of posts. You have to do it manually.

* Lack of Plugins - CMS such as WordPress and Joomla have many more plugins than Jekyll. You more plugins than __you can shake a stick at__ with those platforms. There's really not much to say about Jekyll here, it is really outclassed. The only upside to Jekyll is that if you want to integrate a plugin you can use HTML to do so. It does require some knowledge of how Jekyll is built so it's only really an option for developers, not your average user. 

* Build Times - At the moment this blog only has a couple of pages, only 7 pages! So when I build my site it's relatively quick, usually under a second, but as you begin creating more pages Jekyll is known to slow down. Depending on how large you plan your website on becoming this may very well be a concern for you. 

## Closing Thoughts
This post was originally drafted when I first began playing with Jekyll. After using it to create this blog I have to say that while Jekyll is severely lacking in some places, themes and plugins, I find that as a developer I prefer the burden it places on the creator. When I make a new page I'm not left messing with a UI that's tailored to a non-developer. I have direct access to a page's HTML and CSS. At the end of the day, this was the biggest feature I wanted from a CMS after having spent many hours tracking down a small bug that was caused by a plugin or theme I was using with WordPress. 