---
title: Plans For 2019
categories:
- Personal
feature_text: "Dragon Night"
feature_image: /assets/img/gallery/pexels-1.jpeg
---

Today we bid farewell to 2018 and welcomed 2019. Being honest 2018 wasn't a great year for me, I didn't meet the goals I had set out for myself. Projects were left uncompleted or even dropped. Thinking about it I realized the major factors that set me back were my time management and prioritization. At times I had to rely on all-nighters because I had prioritized wrong and tasks were not completed. Other times I had to put off exercise or family time in order to get work done. Therefore my resolution for this year is to get better at managing my time. Allow me to share with you the techniques and concepts I plan on using to follow through with that resolution.

## Prioritizing

[The One Thing](https://www.amazon.com/One-Thing-Surprisingly-Extraordinary-Results/dp/1848549253/ref=tmm_pap_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&qid=&sr=) is an interesting book with a great message, if you focus on just ONE task you will do a much better job then if you had focused on multiple tasks. This past year I often found myself in similar situations, spreading myself thin on tasks that were too large. Therefore this year I'll be following this message and finding the one task that is most important before I begin to work on any project.

## Time Management

According to Wikipedia [Pomodoro Technique](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique) is a time management technique that breaks down work into intervals and short breaks. I've had acquaintances use Pomodoro at work to great success. They tell me it helped them get organized and ignore the allure of social media that threw them off task. Therefore I'll be using it in order to make the most out of the time the time I have.

## Motivation & Accountability

I'm not sure if this is a personal trait but I work my best when people are watching. When I work on a team I make sure I meet my deadlines, if that means putting in all-nighters then so be it. But when I work on personal projects I often let things slide. Deadlines are set, that is sometimes difficult to meet but never impossible, but if there's a setback then I sometimes just move everything back. So I came up with a comprimise, keep a log of my taks and deadlines on this blog. I'll be making posts, right now planned as weekly posts, where I share my personal schedule. Work I do at whatever position I'm at won't be shared, just personal projects like this blog. This way I'll have 'eyes' on me and have a handy log to see what can be done to improve my schedule moving forward.

## Closing Thoughts

While it's only the first day of 2019 I have already set the stage for the other 364 days. Change doesn't come so easily, I know improving my skills won't be easy. But I'm sure that with disciple I can end the year and be proud of all the projects I **completed**. Something that would have been up in the air the previous year. That said what are your new year's resolutions? Leave a comment down below and thank you for reading.

