---
title: Jekyll
categories:
- General
- Jekyll
feature_image: "/assets/img/jekyll_github.png"
# https://gist.github.com/roachhd/779fa77e9b90fe945b0c
---
## Jekyll and Hyde

At the time of writing the blog is currently not in a great state, I'm still learning the ropes of the CMS I'm using. I have experience working with WordPress before, even made a couple of themes for clients. Native HTML with or without frameworks is also no problem for me, it's actually my preferred method of creating websites. So why go with Jekyll? Let me explain it with three characteristics. 

## Speed

As a web developer working directly with clients one thing you often hear is:

> Can you make my website faster?

Speed is one of the few factors everyone can notice when they load a web page, inherently it's one of the factors that give a first impression of you. My experience with other CMS such as WordPress is that they are naturally slower than pure HTML, after all they have to connect to a database to get content, plugins, and more. There are ways of speeding pages up, caching comes to mind, but as it is usually a plugin there are issues with it. So Jekyll with it's native HTML offers me the best speed with no issues.

## Portability

A Jekyll site can be deployed pretty much anywhere, after building it's just pure HTML. Other solutions require databases, PHP, or more. They make your site more dynamic but have steeper requirements. As a GitHub Pages user I required a solution that could be run with plain HTML and CSS but was easy to update. Jekyll checked those requirements and even has GitHub integration that moves the build process online, allowing you to even make changes from your phone. 

## Usability

This one is more subjective but I find that Jekyll is much easier to use than other CMS like WordPress. With Jekyll there is no dashboard to log in to, no database, and most importantly no PHP. When adding a new post or making changes I just change the file directly, build, then publish. As a plus Jekyll has the added benifit of not creating more vulnerabilities, no users can login after all. As a CMS Jekyll makes me feel in total control of my site, as I control exactly was is output.

Admittedly it's not all great with Jekyll. As the site grows I can see handling large amounts of posts more of a hassle. Other CMS make it easy to modify the site on the go thanks to online dashboards. Jekyll has ways of allowing that but at the moment they're not working for me. The learning curve for Jekyll was defintely greater than any other CMS I have experience with. With something like WordPress you can be up and running in a couple of minutes but Jekyll defintely took me longer than that to set up. All in all Jekyll is not as plug and play as others but it does leave you with a sense of accomplishment once it's set up.

## Closing Thoughts

We can conclude that while Jekyll is a fine CMS it defenitively is not for everyone. Others provide compeling benifits to offset their cons. But I chose Jekyll because it's features are what I need at the moment. A light portable blogging tool that allows me to share my thoughts online, all the while letting me take the wheel and decide where I take it. A tool that allows me to get to core of it and do just about anything I can think of. That is why I went down the path of computer science and it's why I went with Jekyll.